A simple Lux in Tenebris submod.
All due credit to the LiT team for their awesome mod!
The main purpose of making this mod was learning.
Therefore, most features are completely arbitrary!

•Current features
-Everything except colonial nations is in a trade company now
-Caspian Sea is navigable
-You can build the anachronistic Volga-Don canal
-Vistula Lagoon unlocked
-Great Lakes are now considered inland seas

•Current issues
-South Atlantic and Indian Ocean islands do not belong to any TC nor CN
-TC names are bland, not borrowing the flavourful Emperor names
-Volga-Don canal river looks bad because of how rivers are generated by EU4.
Splitting from one river and joining into another seems to confuse the engine.
This could be fixed by making the Volga into sea tiles

•Going forward
This mod makes no sense. I don't promise it will ever make sense.
Below I ramble lenghtly what I'd have to add in order for it to make sense.
These are more than anything personal notes and not an interesting read.

-Navigable rivers
I've seen this feature in a lot of mods and I'm in love with it!
Which ones to add, tho? Which are the world's most important rivers? I have a few candidates:
S tier: Nile, Amazon, Yangtze, Mississipi, Danube (wide, important and nicely spread)
A tier: Yellow River, La Plata, Zaire, Amur, Mekong (wide)
B tier: Dnieper, Elbe, Loire, Oder, Po, Rhine, Rhone, Tagus (the eurocentric high tier)
C tier: Shannon, Thames, Seine (the eurocentric low tier)
D tier: Mackenzie, Yukon, Murray, Tocantins (the colonial nation high tier)
E tier: São Francisco, Rio Grande, St. Lawrence up to Niagara Falls (the colonial nation low tier)
F tier: Brahmaputra, Volga (Don?), Indus, Euphrates, Syr Darya (Aral?), Salween, Irrawaddy, Zambezi, Ganges
That means I believe there are a LOT of rivers that make more sense being navigable than the Volga.
Doesn't mean I will add them haha

-More canals
Ones that are more important and built earlier than the Volga-Don. Candidates:
Nicaragua Canal: from an engineering standpoint, better than the Panama Canal, as lake Nicaragua
provides a buffer for the different sea levels, so no floodgates would have been needed. Historically,
it was the first choice for linking the Atlantic and Pacific, but was not made due to political
instability in the region
Erie Canal: needed since you won't be able to cross the Niagara Falls to access the Great Lakes
Illinois and Michigan Canal: access to the Great lakes... but from the Mississipi!
Grand Canal: the Yuan-dynasty Beijing–Hangzhou one. Since it already existed in 1444, I'd
implement it as yet another navigable river, provided Yangtze and Yellow River are there
Canal du Midi: important and time-appropriate. Might need a navigable Garonne to look good
Rhine-Main-Danube Canal: since the Rhine and Danube would be navigable, why not?
Corinth Canal: if VN has it, why shouldn't I?
Volga-Baltic Waterway: the period-appropriate Russian canals! The way I'll implement it is
ignore the need for a Neva Strait project, and the Ladoga + Onega margin canals. I'll just
pretend Ladoga and Onega aren't terrible for ships and make them Baltic-accessible from the
start of the game, and just let you build the Onega-Beloye-Volga canals.
Northern Dvina Canal: another period-appropriate Russian project!
Moscow Canal and Belmorsk Canal: with the imperial Russian canals covered, why not the remaining
communist Russian canals? They were made before the Volga-Don canal, anyways. If I go this far,
might as well brand this the "Russian Canals" mod.

•What was learned
For anyone interested in modding similar features, here is what I learned.

The best programming language for automating modding tasks, I find, is Lua.
To parse a Paradox-format game file, you only need the following code:

--
function load_pdx_file(subject)
	subject = subject:gsub('%b""', function(a) return a:gsub(" ", [[\32]]) end)
	subject = subject:gsub("([^{%s])%s+([^}%s])", "%1,%2")
	local fun = loadstring("return {" .. subject .. "}")
	setfenv(fun, {}) -- sandbox without io or other dangerous functions
	return fun()
end

local data = load_pdx_file(subject)
--

And now you can manipulate the file's data as a Lua object!

The wiki as of 8/9/2021 is incomplete on how to add canals to the game.
Here is a full guide:

-Add entry in common/great_projects folder. If you do not set an ambient_object, the river will NOT load. The ambient_object doesn't have to be valid, it just has to have your canal's name
-Clone map/ambient_object.txt and add a dummy entry with type and name set as your project's identifier (you could even make the 3D model later, but for now it works)
-Make the map/canal_river.bmp file, multiples of 32. Use colour tables from map/rivers.bmp
-Clone map/default.map and add an entry for your canal, the coordinate is the distance between bottom-left corners of the map and river.bmp
-decisions/yourmod_Canals.txt stuff (base yourself on the basegame decisions/Canals.txt)
-map/adjacencies.csv stuff (the wiki explains how to make a canal-dependent adjacency entry)
-localisation/replace/yourmod_l_english.yml stuff (the wiki tells you the entries to add)
